metadata-ingestion/docs/sources/powerbi/powerbi_pre.md, before:

## Configuration Notes

1. Refer [Microsoft AD App Creation doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/developer/embedded/embed-service-principal) to create a Microsoft AD Application. Once Microsoft AD Application is created you can configure client-credential i.e. client_id and client_secret in recipe for ingestion.
2. Enable admin access if you want to ingest data source and dataset information, including lineage, and endorsement tags. Refer section [Admin Ingestion vs. Basic Ingestion](#admin-ingestion-vs-basic-ingestion) for more detail.

   Login to PowerBI as Admin and from `Admin API settings` allow below permissions

   - Allow service principals to use read-only admin APIs
   - Enhance admin APIs responses with detailed metadata
   - Enhance admin APIs responses with DAX and mashup expressions

## Concept mapping

| PowerBI           | Datahub             |
| ----------------- | ------------------- |
| `Dashboard`       | `Dashboard`         |
| `Dataset's Table` | `Dataset`           |
| `Tile`            | `Chart`             |
| `Report.webUrl`   | `Chart.externalUrl` |
| `Workspace`       | `Container`         |
| `Report`          | `Dashboard`         |
| `PaginatedReport` | `Dashboard`         |
| `Page`            | `Chart`             |
| `App`             | `Dashboard`         |

- If `Tile` is created from report then `Chart.externalUrl` is set to Report.webUrl.
- The `Page` is unavailable for PowerBI PaginatedReport.

## Lineage

This source extracts table lineage for tables present in PowerBI Datasets. Lets consider a PowerBI Dataset `SALES_REPORT` and a PostgreSQL database is configured as data-source in `SALES_REPORT` dataset.

Consider `SALES_REPORT` PowerBI Dataset has a table `SALES_ANALYSIS` which is backed by `SALES_ANALYSIS_VIEW` of PostgreSQL Database then in this case `SALES_ANALYSIS_VIEW` will appear as upstream dataset for `SALES_ANALYSIS` table.

You can control table lineage ingestion using `extract_lineage` configuration parameter, by default it is set to `true`.

PowerBI Source extracts the lineage information by parsing PowerBI M-Query expressions and from dataset data returned by the PowerBI API.

The source will attempt to extract information from ODBC connection strings in M-Query expressions to determine the database type. If the database type matches a supported platform and the source is able to extract enough information to construct a valid Dataset URN, it will extract lineage for that data source.

PowerBI Source will extract lineage for the below listed PowerBI Data Sources:

1.  Snowflake
2.  Oracle
3.  PostgreSQL
4.  Microsoft SQL Server
5.  Google BigQuery
6.  Databricks
7.  MySQL
8.  Amazon Redshift
9.  Amazon Athena

Native SQL query parsing is supported for `Snowflake`, `Amazon Redshift`, and ODBC data sources.

For example, consider the SQL query shown below. The table `OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS.TRANSFORMED_PROD.V_UNIT_TARGET` will be ingested as an upstream table.

```shell
let
  Source = Value.NativeQuery(
    Snowflake.Databases(
      "sdfsd788.ws-east-2.fakecomputing.com",
      "operations_analytics_prod",
      [Role = "OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS_MEMBER"]
    ){[Name = "OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS"]}[Data],
    "select #(lf)UPPER(REPLACE(AGENT_NAME,\'-\',\'\')) AS Agent,#(lf)TIER,#(lf)UPPER(MANAGER),#(lf)TEAM_TYPE,#(lf)DATE_TARGET,#(lf)MONTHID,#(lf)TARGET_TEAM,#(lf)SELLER_EMAIL,#(lf)concat((UPPER(REPLACE(AGENT_NAME,\'-\',\'\'))), MONTHID) as AGENT_KEY,#(lf)UNIT_TARGET AS SME_Quota,#(lf)AMV_TARGET AS Revenue_Quota,#(lf)SERVICE_QUOTA,#(lf)BL_TARGET,#(lf)SOFTWARE_QUOTA as Software_Quota#(lf)#(lf)from OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS.TRANSFORMED_PROD.V_UNIT_TARGETS#(lf)#(lf)where YEAR_TARGET >= 2020#(lf)and TEAM_TYPE = \'foo\'#(lf)and TARGET_TEAM = \'bar\'",
    null,
    [EnableFolding = true]
  ),
  #"Added Conditional Column" = Table.AddColumn(
    Source,
    "Has PS Software Quota?",
    each
      if [TIER] = "Expansion (Medium)" then
        "Yes"
      else if [TIER] = "Acquisition" then
        "Yes"
      else
        "No"
  )
in
  #"Added Conditional Column"
```

Use full-table-name in `from` clause. For example dev.public.category

## M-Query Pattern Supported For Lineage Extraction

Lets consider a M-Query which combine two PostgreSQL tables. Such M-Query can be written as per below patterns.

**Pattern-1**

```shell
let
Source = PostgreSQL.Database("localhost", "book_store"),
book_date = Source{[Schema="public",Item="book"]}[Data],
issue_history = Source{[Schema="public",Item="issue_history"]}[Data],
combine_result  = Table.Combine({book_date, issue_history})
in
combine_result
```

**Pattern-2**

```shell
let
Source = PostgreSQL.Database("localhost", "book_store"),
combine_result  = Table.Combine({Source{[Schema="public",Item="book"]}[Data], Source{[Schema="public",Item="issue_history"]}[Data]})
in
combine_result
```

`Pattern-2` is _not_ supported for upstream table lineage extraction as it uses nested item-selector i.e. {Source{[Schema="public",Item="book"]}[Data], Source{[Schema="public",Item="issue_history"]}[Data]} as argument to M-QUery table function i.e. Table.Combine

`Pattern-1` is supported as it first assigns the table from schema to variable and then variable is used in M-Query Table function i.e. Table.Combine

## Extract endorsements to tags

By default, extracting endorsement information to tags is disabled. The feature may be useful if organization uses [endorsements](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/collaborate-share/service-endorse-content) to identify content quality.

Please note that the default implementation overwrites tags for the ingested entities, if you need to preserve existing tags, consider using a [transformer](../../../../metadata-ingestion/docs/transformer/dataset_transformer.md#simple-add-dataset-globaltags) with `semantics: PATCH` tags instead of `OVERWRITE`.

## Profiling

The profiling implementation is done through querying [DAX query endpoint](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/power-bi/datasets/execute-queries). Therefore, the principal needs to have permission to query the datasets to be profiled. Usually this means that the service principal should have `Contributor` role for the workspace to be ingested. Profiling is done with column-based queries to be able to handle wide datasets without timeouts.

Take into account that the profiling implementation executes a fairly big number of DAX queries, and for big datasets this is a significant load to the PowerBI system.

The `profiling_pattern` setting may be used to limit profiling actions to only a certain set of resources in PowerBI. Both allowed and deny rules are matched against the following pattern for every table in a PowerBI Dataset: `workspace_name.dataset_name.table_name`. Users may limit profiling with these settings at table level, dataset level or workspace level.

## Admin Ingestion vs. Basic Ingestion

PowerBI provides two sets of API i.e. [Basic API and Admin API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/power-bi/).

The Basic API returns metadata of PowerBI resources where service principal has granted access explicitly on resources,
whereas Admin API returns metadata of all PowerBI resources irrespective of whether service principal has granted
or doesn't grant access explicitly on resources.

The Admin Ingestion (explained below) is the recommended way to execute PowerBI ingestion as this ingestion can extract most of the metadata.

### Admin Ingestion: Service Principal As Admin in Tenant Setting and Added as Member In Workspace

To grant admin access to the service principal, visit your PowerBI tenant Settings.

If you have added service principal as `member` in workspace and also allowed below permissions from PowerBI tenant Settings

- Allow service principal to use read-only PowerBI Admin APIs
- Enhance admin APIs responses with detailed metadata
- Enhance admin APIs responses with DAX and mashup expressions

PowerBI Source would be able to ingest below listed metadata of that particular workspace

- Lineage
- PowerBI Dataset
- Endorsement as tag
- Dashboards
- Reports
- Dashboard Tiles
- Report Pages
- App

If you don't want to add a service principal as a member in your workspace, then you can enable the `admin_apis_only: true` in recipe to use PowerBI Admin API only.

Caveats of setting `admin_apis_only` to `true`:

- Report's pages would not get ingested as page API is not available in PowerBI Admin API
- [PowerBI Parameters](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-query/power-query-query-parameters) would not get resolved to actual values while processing M-Query for table lineage
- Dataset profiling is unavailable, as it requires access to the workspace API

### Basic Ingestion: Service Principal As Member In Workspace

If you have added service principal as `member` in workspace then PowerBI Source would be able to ingest below metadata of that particular workspace

- Dashboards
- Reports
- Dashboard's Tiles
- Report's Pages

## User Ownership Configuration

By default, PowerBI ingestion creates users **but does not overwrite existing users**.
This prevents accidentally overwriting user information from authoritative sources (LDAP/SCIM/Okta).

### Configuration

```yaml
source:
  type: powerbi
  config:
    ownership:
      create_corp_user: true # Create users (default: true)
      overwrite_existing_users: false # Protect existing users (default: false)
      use_powerbi_email: true # Use email for user URN (default: true)
```

### Behavior Matrix

| `create_corp_user` | `overwrite_existing_users` | New Users                 | Existing Users                    |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `false`            | N/A                        | Not created               | Not updated                       |
| `true`             | `false` (default)          | Created with PowerBI data | **Skipped** (preserved)           |
| `true`             | `true`                     | Created with PowerBI data | **Overwritten** with PowerBI data |

### Traceability

PowerBI user metadata is stored in `customProperties`:

- `powerbi_user_id`: Original PowerBI user ID
- `powerbi_graph_id`: Microsoft Graph ID (if available)
- `powerbi_principal_type`: Principal type (User, App, Group, etc.)

### Known Limitations (V1)

When `overwrite_existing_users=false` (default):

- **Existing users are never updated**, even if PowerBI has newer/better data
- **Example:** If a user exists with `email=null` but PowerBI has an email, it won't be populated
- **Workaround:** Temporarily set `overwrite_existing_users=true` for one ingestion run to refresh all users:

```yaml
# One-time refresh: Set overwrite_existing_users=true, run once, then revert to false
source:
  type: powerbi
  config:
    ownership:
      create_corp_user: true
      overwrite_existing_users: true # Temporarily enable to refresh all users
```

**If PowerBI is your authoritative source for user data**, set `overwrite_existing_users=true` permanently.

### URN Configuration

The user URN format is controlled by these options:

| `use_powerbi_email` | `remove_email_suffix` | URN Format                                |
| ------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `true` (default)    | `false` (default)     | `urn:li:corpuser:john.doe@company.com`    |
| `true`              | `true`                | `urn:li:corpuser:john.doe`                |
| `false`             | N/A                   | `urn:li:corpuser:users.{powerbi_user_id}` |

### Notes

- **Graph access requirement:** `overwrite_existing_users=false` requires DataHub graph access to
  check if users exist. This works automatically when using the DataHub REST sink. File-based sinks
  (e.g., writing to JSON files) don't have graph access.
- Non-human principals (Apps, Service Principals, Groups) are marked as `active=false`
- Invalid config combinations (e.g., `create_corp_user=false` + `overwrite_existing_users=true`)
  will raise a validation error
- User existence checks are cached per ingestion run for performance (cache is not persisted
  between runs, ensuring fresh checks each time)

### Troubleshooting

**Warning: "Graph unavailable - creating all users"**

This warning appears when `overwrite_existing_users=false` but the ingestion pipeline doesn't
have graph access (typically file-based sinks). Solutions:

- Use the DataHub REST sink instead of file-based output
- Set `overwrite_existing_users=true` to suppress the warning (users will be created/updated)
- Set `create_corp_user=false` if you don't need user creation at all

**Users not being updated with new PowerBI data**

If existing users aren't getting updated with new data from PowerBI:

- This is expected behavior when `overwrite_existing_users=false` (default)
- Set `overwrite_existing_users=true` for one ingestion run to refresh all users
- Or keep it `true` if PowerBI is your authoritative user source

Commit message:

docs(powerbi): clarify datahub_api provides automatic graph access
Address reviewer feedback: emphasize that datahub_api config at the
pipeline level automatically enables graph access for sources when
using file-based sinks with overwrite_existing_users=false.

metadata-ingestion/docs/sources/powerbi/powerbi_pre.md, after:

## Configuration Notes

1. Refer [Microsoft AD App Creation doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/developer/embedded/embed-service-principal) to create a Microsoft AD Application. Once Microsoft AD Application is created you can configure client-credential i.e. client_id and client_secret in recipe for ingestion.
2. Enable admin access if you want to ingest data source and dataset information, including lineage, and endorsement tags. Refer section [Admin Ingestion vs. Basic Ingestion](#admin-ingestion-vs-basic-ingestion) for more detail.

   Login to PowerBI as Admin and from `Admin API settings` allow below permissions

   - Allow service principals to use read-only admin APIs
   - Enhance admin APIs responses with detailed metadata
   - Enhance admin APIs responses with DAX and mashup expressions

## Concept mapping

| PowerBI           | Datahub             |
| ----------------- | ------------------- |
| `Dashboard`       | `Dashboard`         |
| `Dataset's Table` | `Dataset`           |
| `Tile`            | `Chart`             |
| `Report.webUrl`   | `Chart.externalUrl` |
| `Workspace`       | `Container`         |
| `Report`          | `Dashboard`         |
| `PaginatedReport` | `Dashboard`         |
| `Page`            | `Chart`             |
| `App`             | `Dashboard`         |

- If `Tile` is created from report then `Chart.externalUrl` is set to Report.webUrl.
- The `Page` is unavailable for PowerBI PaginatedReport.

## Lineage

This source extracts table lineage for tables present in PowerBI Datasets. Lets consider a PowerBI Dataset `SALES_REPORT` and a PostgreSQL database is configured as data-source in `SALES_REPORT` dataset.

Consider `SALES_REPORT` PowerBI Dataset has a table `SALES_ANALYSIS` which is backed by `SALES_ANALYSIS_VIEW` of PostgreSQL Database then in this case `SALES_ANALYSIS_VIEW` will appear as upstream dataset for `SALES_ANALYSIS` table.

You can control table lineage ingestion using `extract_lineage` configuration parameter, by default it is set to `true`.

PowerBI Source extracts the lineage information by parsing PowerBI M-Query expressions and from dataset data returned by the PowerBI API.

The source will attempt to extract information from ODBC connection strings in M-Query expressions to determine the database type. If the database type matches a supported platform and the source is able to extract enough information to construct a valid Dataset URN, it will extract lineage for that data source.

PowerBI Source will extract lineage for the below listed PowerBI Data Sources:

1.  Snowflake
2.  Oracle
3.  PostgreSQL
4.  Microsoft SQL Server
5.  Google BigQuery
6.  Databricks
7.  MySQL
8.  Amazon Redshift
9.  Amazon Athena

Native SQL query parsing is supported for `Snowflake`, `Amazon Redshift`, and ODBC data sources.

For example, consider the SQL query shown below. The table `OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS.TRANSFORMED_PROD.V_UNIT_TARGET` will be ingested as an upstream table.

```shell
let
  Source = Value.NativeQuery(
    Snowflake.Databases(
      "sdfsd788.ws-east-2.fakecomputing.com",
      "operations_analytics_prod",
      [Role = "OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS_MEMBER"]
    ){[Name = "OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS"]}[Data],
    "select #(lf)UPPER(REPLACE(AGENT_NAME,\'-\',\'\')) AS Agent,#(lf)TIER,#(lf)UPPER(MANAGER),#(lf)TEAM_TYPE,#(lf)DATE_TARGET,#(lf)MONTHID,#(lf)TARGET_TEAM,#(lf)SELLER_EMAIL,#(lf)concat((UPPER(REPLACE(AGENT_NAME,\'-\',\'\'))), MONTHID) as AGENT_KEY,#(lf)UNIT_TARGET AS SME_Quota,#(lf)AMV_TARGET AS Revenue_Quota,#(lf)SERVICE_QUOTA,#(lf)BL_TARGET,#(lf)SOFTWARE_QUOTA as Software_Quota#(lf)#(lf)from OPERATIONS_ANALYTICS.TRANSFORMED_PROD.V_UNIT_TARGETS#(lf)#(lf)where YEAR_TARGET >= 2020#(lf)and TEAM_TYPE = \'foo\'#(lf)and TARGET_TEAM = \'bar\'",
    null,
    [EnableFolding = true]
  ),
  #"Added Conditional Column" = Table.AddColumn(
    Source,
    "Has PS Software Quota?",
    each
      if [TIER] = "Expansion (Medium)" then
        "Yes"
      else if [TIER] = "Acquisition" then
        "Yes"
      else
        "No"
  )
in
  #"Added Conditional Column"
```

Use full-table-name in `from` clause. For example dev.public.category

## M-Query Pattern Supported For Lineage Extraction

Lets consider a M-Query which combine two PostgreSQL tables. Such M-Query can be written as per below patterns.

**Pattern-1**

```shell
let
Source = PostgreSQL.Database("localhost", "book_store"),
book_date = Source{[Schema="public",Item="book"]}[Data],
issue_history = Source{[Schema="public",Item="issue_history"]}[Data],
combine_result  = Table.Combine({book_date, issue_history})
in
combine_result
```

**Pattern-2**

```shell
let
Source = PostgreSQL.Database("localhost", "book_store"),
combine_result  = Table.Combine({Source{[Schema="public",Item="book"]}[Data], Source{[Schema="public",Item="issue_history"]}[Data]})
in
combine_result
```

`Pattern-2` is _not_ supported for upstream table lineage extraction as it uses nested item-selector i.e. {Source{[Schema="public",Item="book"]}[Data], Source{[Schema="public",Item="issue_history"]}[Data]} as argument to M-QUery table function i.e. Table.Combine

`Pattern-1` is supported as it first assigns the table from schema to variable and then variable is used in M-Query Table function i.e. Table.Combine

## Extract endorsements to tags

By default, extracting endorsement information to tags is disabled. The feature may be useful if organization uses [endorsements](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/collaborate-share/service-endorse-content) to identify content quality.

Please note that the default implementation overwrites tags for the ingested entities, if you need to preserve existing tags, consider using a [transformer](../../../../metadata-ingestion/docs/transformer/dataset_transformer.md#simple-add-dataset-globaltags) with `semantics: PATCH` tags instead of `OVERWRITE`.

## Profiling

The profiling implementation is done through querying [DAX query endpoint](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/power-bi/datasets/execute-queries). Therefore, the principal needs to have permission to query the datasets to be profiled. Usually this means that the service principal should have `Contributor` role for the workspace to be ingested. Profiling is done with column-based queries to be able to handle wide datasets without timeouts.

Take into account that the profiling implementation executes a fairly big number of DAX queries, and for big datasets this is a significant load to the PowerBI system.

The `profiling_pattern` setting may be used to limit profiling actions to only a certain set of resources in PowerBI. Both allowed and deny rules are matched against the following pattern for every table in a PowerBI Dataset: `workspace_name.dataset_name.table_name`. Users may limit profiling with these settings at table level, dataset level or workspace level.

## Admin Ingestion vs. Basic Ingestion

PowerBI provides two sets of API i.e. [Basic API and Admin API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/power-bi/).

The Basic API returns metadata of PowerBI resources where service principal has granted access explicitly on resources,
whereas Admin API returns metadata of all PowerBI resources irrespective of whether service principal has granted
or doesn't grant access explicitly on resources.

The Admin Ingestion (explained below) is the recommended way to execute PowerBI ingestion as this ingestion can extract most of the metadata.

### Admin Ingestion: Service Principal As Admin in Tenant Setting and Added as Member In Workspace

To grant admin access to the service principal, visit your PowerBI tenant Settings.

If you have added service principal as `member` in workspace and also allowed below permissions from PowerBI tenant Settings

- Allow service principal to use read-only PowerBI Admin APIs
- Enhance admin APIs responses with detailed metadata
- Enhance admin APIs responses with DAX and mashup expressions

PowerBI Source would be able to ingest below listed metadata of that particular workspace

- Lineage
- PowerBI Dataset
- Endorsement as tag
- Dashboards
- Reports
- Dashboard Tiles
- Report Pages
- App

If you don't want to add a service principal as a member in your workspace, then you can enable the `admin_apis_only: true` in recipe to use PowerBI Admin API only.

Caveats of setting `admin_apis_only` to `true`:

- Report's pages would not get ingested as page API is not available in PowerBI Admin API
- [PowerBI Parameters](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-query/power-query-query-parameters) would not get resolved to actual values while processing M-Query for table lineage
- Dataset profiling is unavailable, as it requires access to the workspace API

### Basic Ingestion: Service Principal As Member In Workspace

If you have added service principal as `member` in workspace then PowerBI Source would be able to ingest below metadata of that particular workspace

- Dashboards
- Reports
- Dashboard's Tiles
- Report's Pages

## User Ownership Configuration

By default, PowerBI ingestion creates users **but does not overwrite existing users**.
This prevents accidentally overwriting user information from authoritative sources (LDAP/SCIM/Okta).

### Configuration

```yaml
source:
  type: powerbi
  config:
    ownership:
      create_corp_user: true # Create users (default: true)
      overwrite_existing_users: false # Protect existing users (default: false)
      use_powerbi_email: true # Use email for user URN (default: true)
```

### Behavior Matrix

| `create_corp_user` | `overwrite_existing_users` | New Users                 | Existing Users                    |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `false`            | N/A                        | Not created               | Not updated                       |
| `true`             | `false` (default)          | Created with PowerBI data | **Skipped** (preserved)           |
| `true`             | `true`                     | Created with PowerBI data | **Overwritten** with PowerBI data |

### Traceability

PowerBI user metadata is stored in `customProperties`:

- `powerbi_user_id`: Original PowerBI user ID
- `powerbi_graph_id`: Microsoft Graph ID (if available)
- `powerbi_principal_type`: Principal type (User, App, Group, etc.)

### Stateful Ingestion Compatibility

This feature is fully compatible with stateful ingestion. When `overwrite_existing_users=false`:

- **Skipped users are NOT soft-deleted** - Even though user MCPs are not emitted for existing users,
  their URNs are still tracked to prevent stateful ingestion from removing them
- **Safe to toggle** - You can safely switch `overwrite_existing_users` between `true` and `false`
  across runs without losing users

### Known Limitations (V1)

When `overwrite_existing_users=false` (default):

- **Existing users are never updated**, even if PowerBI has newer/better data
- **Example:** If a user exists with `email=null` but PowerBI has an email, it won't be populated
- **Workaround:** Temporarily set `overwrite_existing_users=true` for one ingestion run to refresh all users:

```yaml
# One-time refresh: Set overwrite_existing_users=true, run once, then revert to false
source:
  type: powerbi
  config:
    ownership:
      create_corp_user: true
      overwrite_existing_users: true # Temporarily enable to refresh all users
```

**If PowerBI is your authoritative source for user data**, set `overwrite_existing_users=true` permanently.

### URN Configuration

The user URN format is controlled by these options:

| `use_powerbi_email` | `remove_email_suffix` | URN Format                                |
| ------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `true` (default)    | `false` (default)     | `urn:li:corpuser:john.doe@company.com`    |
| `true`              | `true`                | `urn:li:corpuser:john.doe`                |
| `false`             | N/A                   | `urn:li:corpuser:users.{powerbi_user_id}` |

### Notes

- **Graph access requirement:** `overwrite_existing_users=false` requires DataHub graph access to
  check if users exist. This is automatically available when using the DataHub REST sink. For file-based
  sinks, add the `datahub_api` config at the pipeline level (same level as `source`/`sink`) to
  automatically enable graph access.
- Non-human principals (Apps, Service Principals, Groups) are marked as `active=false`
- Invalid config combinations (e.g., `create_corp_user=false` + `overwrite_existing_users=true`)
  will raise a validation error
- User existence checks are cached per ingestion run for performance (cache is not persisted
  between runs, ensuring fresh checks each time)

### Troubleshooting

**Warning: "Graph unavailable - creating all users"**

This warning appears when `overwrite_existing_users=false` but the ingestion pipeline doesn't
have graph access (typically file-based sinks). Solutions:

- Use the DataHub REST sink instead of file-based output
- Add `datahub_api` config to provide graph access with file-based sinks:
  ```yaml
  datahub_api:
    server: "http://localhost:8080"
    # token: "..." # if authentication is required
  ```
- Set `overwrite_existing_users=true` to suppress the warning (users will be created/updated)
- Set `create_corp_user=false` if you don't need user creation at all

**Users not being updated with new PowerBI data**

If existing users aren't getting updated with new data from PowerBI:

- This is expected behavior when `overwrite_existing_users=false` (default)
- Set `overwrite_existing_users=true` for one ingestion run to refresh all users
- Or keep it `true` if PowerBI is your authoritative user source
